Python Intepreter is basically a program that executes our python code. 

Tools:
Code Editor                                     ex: vscode, atom, sublime
IDE - Integrated Development Environment        ex: pycharm
IDE is a code editor with additional features like AutoCompletion, Debugging, Testing

we are using vscode here, by installing a pluggin or extension vscode can be converted into a powerful IDE

Many Built in Functions in python

print 

so for execution, vscode has an integrated terminal.

open and close this terminal ctrl + ` (backtick)


we are using vscode here, by installing a pluggin or extension vscode can be converted into a powerful IDE
extension used python

Linting code:
shows the potential errors in the lines of code
Problems panel lists all the issues in your code in one place
shift+ctrl+M     View> Problems

View > Command Palette -- can execute various commands in vscode -- all commands prefixed with python, since they all came after the installation of the python extension.
default lint set in the python extension of vscode - pylint

Formatting code:
In python community, there are many documents called pep -- python enhancement proposals these are documents with instructions to be followed
Formatting python code--there are tools, one popular one is AutoPep8

In command palette >> execute Format Document
Code> Preferences > Settings > TYPE formatOnSave

To define shortcuts

shift+ctrl+p
Open Keyboard shortcuts
Run python file -- double click on it -- ctrl+R (we defined it)

Python
Language + Particular Implementation
Language is a specification that defines a set of rules and grammar for writing code.
Implementation is a program that understands those rules and executes python code

python.org is the default implentation of python called cpython -- its a program written in C
there are several other implementations like 
Jython -- written in java
ironpython -- c# c sharp
pypy -- subset of python

so if we give python code to any of this impenetations, it should give the same result. But in practical its not the case

reason behind multiple implementations (variety in os, browsers, programming languages ..)
if say you are a java developer, and want to reuse or bring some of your java code into ur python program. Can use jython.


How is python code executed?

so languages like C is simple text based language understood by humans, for computers to understand it, it needs to be converted to Machine code. 
compiler is a program that converts this c code to machine code. The machine code is specific to type of CPU of a computer.

the machine code understood by windows wont be understood by mac

But Java solved this program.
a java compiler converts code into a portable language called java byte code instead of into machine code.
this java byte code is not specific to a hardware platform like windows or mac

then there is another program called jvm or java virtual machine that converts each instruction in byte code to machine code.

there are jvm implementations for windows, mac etc

windows jvm converts java byte code into machine code understood by windows machine

when we run a python code with Cpython. first it will run our python code into python bytecode. bytecode passes to python virtual machine, that gets converted to machine code and gets executed.

incase of jython. it take java code right, so it will convert python code to java bytecode and jvm inturn converts it into 
machine code

expression is a piece of code that produces a value
syntax error is an error due to bad syntax or bad grammar in code.
linter is a tool that checks the code for potential errors before running the code.







